[Music]
if you ever read at least the first book
about harry potter
you probably remember the young wizard
accidentally letting a huge
snake out of its cage that was in fact a
boa constrictor
one of the largest snakes in the world
the females of its kind can reach 14
feet in length
that's about half as long as a famous
london red bus
it's one of only two animals in history
named exactly the same
in both common language and the
scientific latin the other one is the
infamous
tyrannosaurus rex like many large
non-venomous snakes
boa constrictor is a peaceful giant that
loves lying in the sun
doing nothing even on a hunt it would
rather lie in weight until its prey
comes within a striking range
and then swoop down on it
yellow anaconda also belongs to the boa
species of giant snakes
but it's nothing like the previous one
it reaches 15 feet in length
take shaquille o'neal put another on his
shoulders and you get one yellow
anaconda
except it can't dunk a basketball this
beast is slow but known to be aggressive
in captivity it doesn't like to be
around humans and can be unpredictable
yellow anacondas can only be found in
south america
and i'm really thankful for that and
mostly inhabit
shallow waters of river regions in fact
even its scientific first name eunectes
meaning good swimmer from greek yet
there's a sinister thing about these
serpents
they're known to eat their own kind
snake recycling
sort of nobody knows how often this
happens though
green anaconda is slightly longer than
her yellow sister
reaching the longest of 17 feet but at
the same time it's much heavier
it can weigh as much as a python one and
a half times its length
the funny thing about green anacondas
is that lots of people seem to believe
it's the longest and the heaviest of all
snakes
while this is far from the truth well
that wasn't funny
never mind all across the regions where
anacondas live
there are still rumors of these snakes
reaching lengths
double or even triple their maximum and
these rumors persist
although a scientist who studied over a
thousand green anacondas
states clearly in his works that there
should be no snake like this
longer than 17 feet i guess people just
love
mysteries
burmese python is opening the big six of
the greatest snakes in the world
if you ever find yourself going through
a tropical marsh in southeast
asia make sure you're paying attention
to your surroundings
burmese pythons like to rest in the damp
areas like that
and with their brown coloring you'll
have trouble seeing them
yeah even despite their huge size they
can grow up to almost 19 feet in length
and try not to be too scared when you
see it
hanging from a tree and looking you
tenderly in the eye
these pythons have what's called a
prehensile tail
a tail that's good for climbing and
hanging off tree branches
but perhaps the most unexpected place to
meet it would be in
florida where burmese pythons were
illegally
imported as pets and some escaped and
multiplied
estimates put their population at one
hundred thousand
now remember kah from the jungle book
well meat is prototype
the indian python despite its name it
can be found
not only in india but also in pakistan
and even as far as
china the snake is truly huge reaching
the length of 21 feet
you know how i love giraffes and this is
almost exactly how tall they are
indian pythons also prefer damp
surroundings
but unlike yellow endocondas they can
easily find home on dry land
when a young python hatches from its egg
it's almost helpless
depending on its mother to feed and
protect it but
after a couple of days it becomes
independent and grows to an adult in a
matter of two years
a methistine python or less poetically
scrub python is a gentle giant
in papua new guinea and australia there
are no bigger snakes than this scaly
beauty
it can grow to the enormous size of 24
feet
as proved by the guinness world records
and weigh up to 200 pounds
heavier than its neighboring kangaroo
scrub pythons are pretty curious
sometimes slithering inside people's
homes in australia
but they're mostly harmless for humans
their favorite food is much smaller
they catch rodents bats and birds that
come to streams for water
until then pythons quietly lie in weight
like pit vipers this non-venomous snake
has heat sensors in the pit of its
muzzle
they help it better see warm-blooded
animals it's
going to have for dinner
african rock python is one of only 11
species of its kind
and it's the second largest this huge
brown snake reaches lengths of up to 25
feet
and weighs almost like a giant panda and
unlike the previous entries on this list
it's very serious about its meals a rock
python can catch an
antelope and eat it whole even the
cold-blooded crocodiles are afraid of
this beast
because it can easily eat one of their
kind too
in 1958 a zoologist found a four foot
long
young nile croc inside an african
python's stomach
hard to swallow but it's true in its
homeland
this serpent is held in reverence and
fear
but in fact it's not really keen on
munching humans
[Music]
finally the reticulated python holds the
first place
as the world's longest living snake the
largest specimen of this kind
made it into the guinness world records
in 2011
25.2 feet in length and 350 pounds in
weight
its name was medusa and it lived in a
zoo in kansas city missouri
an adult reticulated python is large
enough to swallow a human hole
and they are known to do that sometimes
mostly though these snakes are quite
peaceful and prefer to lie down without
a lot of movement
interestingly although many pythons have
dwarf forms that are much smaller than
their full-grown cousins
reticulated pythons also have super
dwarf forms too
they're kept as pets and only grow to a
maximum of
eight feet in length well that's just so
much smaller
but still longer than the average human
is tall
we've covered the living snakes but what
about the largest ones ever
one of them was gigantifists a giant
snake that went extinct about 40 million
years ago
thank you and until 2009 was considered
the biggest in the history of earth
its estimated size was reaching 35 feet
two such snakes could cover a cricket
pitch
giganyphus lived in the territory that
today is covered in sands
the sahara desert and egypt at the time
it was a sea so this serpent was a water
snake
it also wasn't either a python or a boa
but belonged to its own separate family
of snakes
which unfortunately went extinct
altogether
yet the biggest serpent that ever
existed is officially
the titanoboa its fossilized remains
were discovered and measured in colombia
in 2009 and it made a sensation at the
time
the gigantic snake could grow to the
absolute epic
size 42 feet in length which is as big
as a semi truck
and over a ton in weight scientists
believe
such a constrictor could easily crush
even the hardest of animals with its
weight alone
and its length allowed it to hug
middle-sized dinosaurs
but the base of its diet actually lived
in the water
the titanoboa loved fish like nothing
else
yeah baby seafood titanoboa
also became a celebrity in 2012
smithsonian channel released a
documentary about this snake
and it inspired lots of other movies
including of course
monster horrors